Objective
The objective of this task is to explore user accounts, understand access control, and practice working with file permissions in Linux as part of operating system hardening.

Steps Performed
1. Checked Current User
Command:
whoami
Output: twin
Explanation: Verified that the current user is a standard, non-root user. This ensures that all operations are performed safely without full administrative privileges.

2. Listed All Users

Command:
cat /etc/passwd
Output: System users such as sshd, www-data, mysql, postgres, and the regular user twin.
Explanation:
System accounts run services with limited privileges and are configured with non-login shells.
Regular users such as twin have a user ID of 1000 or higher and are used for standard operations.
The root account has a user ID of 0 and full administrative privileges.
This demonstrates the principle of least privilege, which is a key part of system security.

3. Checked User Groups

Command:
groups

Output: Shows all groups that the user twin belongs to.
Explanation: Group membership defines access rights to files and other system resources. It is important to audit these groups to enforce proper access control.

4. Created a Standard User
Command:
sudo adduser testuser
Explanation: A new standard user testuser was created to simulate an environment where administrative privileges are restricted. This is an important practice to limit the risk of accidental or malicious system changes.

5. Switched to Standard User
Command:
su testuser

Explanation: By switching to the standard user, it was confirmed that the user cannot perform administrative actions without using sudo. Attempting to install software without privileges demonstrates the enforced access control.
6. Worked with File Permissions

Commands and actions performed:
touch demo.txt
ls -l demo.txt
chmod 700 demo.txt
ls -l demo.txt
sudo chown testuser:testuser demo.txt
ls -l demo.txt

Explanation:
chmod 700 sets the file so that only the owner can read, write, and execute it.
chown changes the file ownership to the standard user testuser.
This demonstrates how file permissions and ownership are used to restrict access and enforce security policies.
Screenshots:
Screenshots were taken to provide proof of execution and include:
Current user output from whoami
/etc/passwd output showing system and regular users
Creation of testuser
File permission changes and ownership changes
Permission error when a standard user attempts administrative action

Conclusion:
Task 2 confirms the following:
Standard users have limited privileges, which reduces the risk to the system.
Root users have full control and should be used only when necessary.
System and service accounts follow the principle of least privilege, limiting potential damage if compromised.
File permissions and ownership are effective mechanisms for enforcing access control and securing sensitive files.

This task demonstrates the importance of managing user accounts, groups, and file permissions as part of operating system hardening.
